[GEOS-10153] - Features templating UI (#5157)
geoserver/geoserver: doc/en/user/source/community/features-templating/directives.rst

.. _template-directives:

Template Directives
===================

This part of the documentation is an introduction explaining the different template directives that can be used to customize a GetFeature output. 
Examples will be provided for both Simple Features and Complex Features.
There are two kind of main template types:

* JSON based templates (GeoJSON and JSON-LD).
* XML based templates (at the time of writing only GML).

The examples will be provided mainly for GeoJSON and GML. Anyway the syntax defined for GeoJSON output, unless otherwise specified, will works as well for JSON-LD templates.

Template directive summary
--------------------------

The following constitues a summary of all the template directives and it is meant to be used for quick reference. Each directive is explained in details in the sections below.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 10 10 30 60

>    * - **Directive**

Author: fixed.

* A ``@context`` needs to be specified (see the ``options`` section below).
* The standard mandates that attributes' values are all strings.

${property} and $${cql} directive (Simple Feature example)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Assume that we want to change the default geojson output of the :code:`topp:states` layer. A single feature in the default output is like the following:

.. code-block:: json

  {
   "type": "Feature",
    "id": "states.1",
    "geometry": {},
    "geometry_name": "the_geom",
    "properties": {
    "STATE_NAME": "Illinois",
    "STATE_FIPS": "17",
    "SUB_REGION": "E N Cen",
    "STATE_ABBR": "IL",
    "LAND_KM": 143986.61,
    "WATER_KM": 1993.335,
    "PERSONS": 11430602,
    "FAMILIES": 2924880,
    "HOUSHOLD": 4202240,
    "MALE": 5552233,
    "FEMALE": 5878369,
    "WORKERS": 4199206,
    "DRVALONE": 3741715,
    "CARPOOL": 652603,
    "PUBTRANS": 538071,
    "EMPLOYED": 5417967,
    "UNEMPLOY": 385040,
    "SERVICE": 1360159,
    "MANUAL": 828906,
    "P_MALE": 0.486,
    "P_FEMALE": 0.514,
    "SAMP_POP": 1747776
    }
  }

> In particular we want to include in the final output only certain properties (e.g. the geometry, the state name, the code, values about population, male, female and workers). We want also to change some attribute names and to have them lower cased. Finally we want to have a string field having a wkt representation of the geometry. The desired output is like the following:

Author: fixed

    </topp:states>

As it is possible to see we are encoding the geometry only as a wkt, moreover the STATE_ATTR value is now present as an xml attribute of the element :code:`topp:states`. Finally elements that were not defined in the template did not showed up.

Looking at these examples it is possible to see that we have used few directives to customize the output:

* Property interpolation can be invoked using the directive :code:`${property_name}`.
* In case complex operation are needed a CQL expression can be used throught a :code:`$${cql}` syntax (all CQL functions are supported).
* Simple text values are reproduced in the final output as they are.
* Finally the gml template needs the actual template content to be wrapped into a :code:`gft:Template` element. The :code:`gft` doesn't needs to be bound to a namespaces. It is used just as marker of features-templating related element and will not be present in the final output.
* We also another element the :code:`gft:Options` with two more elements inside. It will be explained in below dedicated section.

Source and filter (Complex Feature example)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Lets assume now that we have a configured AppSchema layer and we want to customize the complex features output.

Author: fixed

* When using :code:`${property}` directive or an :code:`xpath('xpath')` function it is possible to reference a property bounded to an upper :code:`$source` using a ``../`` notation eg. ``${../previousContextValue}``.
* :code:`$filter` provides the possibility to filter the value that will be included in the element to which is applied, in this case a json array. For instance the filter :code:`$filter":"xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'wind speed'` in the :code:`Winds_speed` array allows to filter the element that will be included in this array according to the :code:`param_name value`.

> .. warning:: the :code:`xpath('some xpath)` cql function is meant to be used in the scope of this plugin. For general usage please refers to the :geotools:`property function <library/main/function_list.html#property-propertyname-returns-propertyvalue>`.

Author: fixed

   }

In case a specific item of an array needs to be retrieved, the ``item`` function can be used,
for example, the following template extracts the second item in an array (would fail if not
present):

.. code-block:: json
   :linenos:

   {
      "second": "$${item(keywords, 1)}"
   }

There is currently no explicit support for array based columns in GML templates.

Simplfied Property Access
--------------------------

The features-templating plug-in provides the possibility to directly reference domain name when dealing with Complex Features and using property interpolation in a template.
As an example lets use again the meteo stations use case. This is the ER diagram of the Database table involved.

.. figure:: images/meteos-stations-er-diagram.png

The following is a GeoJSON template that directly reference table names and column name, instead of referencing the target Xpath in the AppSchema mappings.

.. code-block:: json
 
 {
   "$source":"meteo_stations",
   "Identifier":"${id}",
   "Name":"${common_name}",
   "Code":"$${strConcat('STATION-', xpath('code'))}",
   "Location":"$${toWKT(position)}",
   "Temperatures":[
      {
         "$source":"meteo_observations",

>          "$filter":"propertyPath('->meteo_parameters.param_name') = 'temperature' AND 'yes' = env('showTemperatures','yes')"

Reviewer: @taba90 any comment?

>          "$filter":"propertyPath('->meteo_parameters.param_name') = 'temperature' AND 'yes' = env('showTemperatures','yes')"

Author: Sorry @aaime  forgot to reply here. I've added some some more details in the documentation.

.. _template-directives:

Template Directives
===================

This part of the documentation is an introduction explaining the different template directives. 
Examples will be provided for both Simple Features and Complex Features.
The syntax of the directives varies slightly between XML based templates and JSON based templates.

> The examples will be provided mainly for GeoJSON and GML. Anyway the syntax defined for GeoJSON output, unless otherwise specified, will works as well for JSON-LD templates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The examples will be provided mainly for GeoJSON and GML. However the syntax defined for GeoJSON output, unless otherwise specified, is valid for JSON-LD templates.
```

Template directive summary
--------------------------

> The following constitues a summary of all the template directives and it is meant to be used for quick reference. Each directive is explained in details in the sections below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following constitutes a summary of all the template directives and it is meant to be used for quick reference. Each directive is explained in detail in the sections below.
```

   * - cql evaluation
     - $${cql}
     - specify them either as an element value (:code:`<element>$${cql}</element>`) or as an xml attribute value (:code:`<element attribute:"$${cql}"/>`)
   * - setting the evaluation context for property interpolation and cql evaluation in child elements.
     - gft:source
     - specify it as an xml attribute (:code:`<element gft:source:"property">`)
   * - filter the element to which is applied based on the defined condition
     - gft:filter
     - specify it as an XML attribute on the element to be filtered (:code:`<element gft:filter:"condition">`)
   * - marks the beginning of an XML template.
     - gft:Template
     - It has to be the root element of an XML template (:code:`<gft:Template> Template content</gft:Template>`)
   * - defines options to customize the output outside of a feature scope
     - gft:Options
     - specify it as an element at the beggining of the xml document after the :code:`<gft:Template>` one (:code:`<gft:Options></gft:Options>`). GML options: :code:`<gtf:Namespaces>`,:code:`<gtf:SchemaLocation>`

>    * - allows to include a template into another

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * - allows including a template into another
```

     - $include, gft:includeFlat

>      - specify the :code:`$include` option as an element value (:code:`<element>$include{included.xml}</element>`) and the :code:`gft:includeFlat` as an element having the included tempalte as text content (:code:`<gft:includeFlat>included.xml</gft:includeFlat>`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - specify the :code:`$include` option as an element value (:code:`<element>$include{included.xml}</element>`) and the :code:`gft:includeFlat` as an element having the included template as text content (:code:`<gft:includeFlat>included.xml</gft:includeFlat>`)
```

A step by step introduction to features-templating syntax
---------------------------------------------------------

> This introduction is meant to illustrates the different directives that can be used in a template. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This introduction is meant to illustrate the different directives that can be used in a template. 
```

> For clarity the documentation will go before through a ``Simple Feature`` example and then through a ``Complex Feature`` one. However all the directives that will be showed are available for both Simple and Complex Features. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For clarity the documentation will start with a ``Simple Feature`` example and then progress through a ``Complex Feature`` example. However all the directives that will be shown are available for both Simple and Complex Features. 
```

> ``GeoJSON`` and ``GML`` examples will be used mostly. For ``JSON-LD`` output format the rules to define a template are the same of the ``GeoJSON`` template with two exceptions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``GeoJSON`` and ``GML`` examples will be used mostly. For ``JSON-LD`` output format the rules to define a template are the same as the ``GeoJSON`` template with two exceptions:
```

     <gft:SchemaLocation xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.opengis.net/wfs/2.0 http://brgm-dev.geo-solutions.it/geoserver/schemas/wfs/2.0/wfs.xsd http://www.opengis.net/gml/3.2 http://schemas.opengis.net/gml/3.2.1/gml.xsd"/>
   </gft:Options>
   <topp:states gml:id="${@id}">
     <topp:name code="${STATE_ABBR}">${STATE_NAME}</topp:name>
     <topp:region>${SUB_REGION}</topp:region>
     <topp:population>${PERSONS}</topp:population>
     <topp:males>${MALE}</topp:males>
     <topp:females>${FEMALE}</topp:females>
     <topp:active_population>${WORKERS}</topp:active_population>
     <topp:wkt_geom>$${toWKT(the_geom)}</topp:wkt_geom>
   </topp:states>
 </gft:Template>

And this is how a feature will appear:

.. code-block:: xml

   <topp:states gml:id="states.10">
      <topp:name code="MO">Missouri</topp:name>
      <topp:region>W N Cen</topp:region>
      <topp:population>5117073.0</topp:population>
      <topp:males>2464315.0</topp:males>
      <topp:females>2652758.0</topp:females>
      <topp:active_population>1861192.0</topp:active_population>
      <topp:wkt_geom>MULTIPOLYGON (([....])))</topp:wkt_geom>
    </topp:states>

> As it is possible to see the geometry is being encoded only as a wkt, moreover the STATE_ATTR value is now present as an xml attribute of the element :code:`topp:states`. Finally elements that were not defined in the template did not showed up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As it is possible to see the geometry is being encoded only as a wkt, moreover the STATE_ATTR value is now present as an xml attribute of the element :code:`topp:states`. Finally elements that were not defined in the template did not show up.
```

> Looking at these examples it is possible to see that few more directives to customize the output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Looking at these examples it is possible to see additional directives that can customize the output:
```

* Property interpolation can be invoked using the directive :code:`${property_name}`.
* In case complex operation are needed a CQL expression can be used throught a :code:`$${cql}` syntax (all CQL functions are supported).
* Simple text values are reproduced in the final output as they are.

> * Finally the gml template needs the actual template content to be wrapped into a :code:`gft:Template` element. The :code:`gft` doesn't needs to be bound to a namespaces. It is used just as marker of features-templating related element and will not be present in the final output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Finally the GML template needs the actual template content to be wrapped into a :code:`gft:Template` element. The :code:`gft` doesn't needs to be bound to a namespace. It is used just as marker of a features-templating related element and will not be present in the final output.
```

> * There is also another element, the :code:`gft:Options`, with two more elements inside. It will be explained in below dedicated section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There is also another element, the :code:`gft:Options`, with two more elements inside. It will be explained in a later section.
```

            "time":"2016-12-19T11:30:26Z",
            "value":1019,
            "meteoParameters":[
               {
                  "id":3,
                  "param_name":"pressure",
                  "param_unit":"hPa"
               }
            ]
         },
         {
            "id":7,
            "time":"2016-12-19T11:30:51Z",
            "value":1015,
            "meteoParameters":[
               {
                  "id":3,
                  "param_name":"pressure",
                  "param_unit":"hPa"
               }
            ]
         }
      ]
   }
 }

The above JSON has a data structure where:

* Station object has a nested array of Observations.
* Each Observation has a an array of parameter that describe the type of Observation.

Now let's assume that a different output needs to be produced where instead of having a generic array of observation nested into the root object, arrays are provided separately for each type of parameter e.g. Temperatures, Pressures and Winds_speed observations. In other words instead of having the Observation type defined inside a nested Parameter object that information should be provided directly in the attribute name.

> The pursued output looks like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The desired output looks like the following:
```

        "Location":"$${toWKT(xpath('st:position'))}",
        "Temperatures":[
          {
            "$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
            "$filter":"xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'temperature'"
          },
          {
            "Timestamp": "${st:time}",
            "Value": "${st:value}"
          }
        ],
        "Pressures":[
          {
            "$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
            "$filter":"xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'pressure'"
          },
          {
            "Timestamp": "${st:time}",
            "Value": "${st:value}"
          }
        ],
        "Winds_speed":[
          {
            "$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
            "$filter":"xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'wind speed'"
          },
          {
            "Timestamp": "${st:time}",
            "Value": "${st:value}"
          }
        ]
      }
     }

In addition to the :code:`${property}` and :code:`$${cql}` directives seen before, there are two more:

> * In the example above the :code:`xpath('xpath')` function is used to reference property. When dealing with Complex Features it must be used when referencing properties inside a :code:`$filter` or a :code:`$${cql}` directives.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In the example above the :code:`xpath('xpath')` function is used to reference property. When dealing with Complex Features it must be used when referencing properties inside a :code:`$filter` or a :code:`$${cql}` directive.
```

* When using :code:`${property}` directive or an :code:`xpath('xpath')` function it is possible to reference a property bounded to an upper :code:`$source` using a ``../`` notation eg. ``${../previousContextValue}``.
* :code:`$filter` provides the possibility to filter the value that will be included in the element to which is applied, in this case a json array. For instance the filter :code:`$filter":"xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'wind speed'` in the :code:`Winds_speed` array allows to filter the element that will be included in this array according to the :code:`param_name value`.

> One note aboute the Source. It is strictly needed only when referencing a nested features. This means that in the GeoJSON template example the :code:`"$source":"st:MeteoStationsFeature"` coudl have been omitted. This not apply for nested elements definition where the :code:`"$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature"` is mandatory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One note aboute the Source. It is strictly needed only when referencing a nested feature. This means that in the GeoJSON template example the :code:`"$source":"st:MeteoStationsFeature"` could have been omitted. This not apply for nested elements definition where the :code:`"$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature"` is mandatory.
```

Follows a list of JSON template bits showing  :code:`filters` definition in context different from a JSON array, as well as :code:`$source` definition for a JSONObject.

* Object (encode the JSON object only if the st:value is greater than 75.3).

.. code-block:: json

 {
   "Observation":
         {
           "$source":"st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
           "$filter":"st:value > 75.3 ",
           "Timestamp":"${st:time}",
           "Value":"${st:value}"
        }
 }

* Attribute (encode the Timestamp attribute only if the st:value is greater than 75.3).

.. code-block:: json

  {
  "Observation":
         {
           "$source":"st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
           "Timestamp":"$filter{st:value > 75.3}, ${st:time}",
           "Value":"${st:value}"
        }
  }

* Static attribute  (encode the Static_value attribute only if the st:value is greater than 75.3).

.. code-block:: json

   {
  "Observation":
         {
           "$source":"st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
           "Timestamp":"${st:time}",
           "Static_value":"$filter{st:value > 75.3}, this Observation has a value > 75.3",
           "Value":"${st:value}"
        }
  }

> As it is possible to see from the previous example in the array and object cases the filter sintax expected a :code:`"$filter"` key followed by an attribute with the filter to evaluate. In the attribute case, instead, the filter is being specified inside the value as :code:`"$filter{...}"`, followed by  the cql expression, or by the static content, with a comma separating the two.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As it is possible to see from the previous example in the array and object cases the filter syntax expected a :code:`"$filter"` key followed by an attribute with the filter to evaluate. In the attribute case, instead, the filter is being specified inside the value as :code:`"$filter{...}"`, followed by  the CQL expression, or by the static content, with a comma separating the two.
```

GML
"""

> :code:`filter` and :code:`source` are available as well in GML template. Assuming that the desired output is the correspective GML output of the GeoJSON output above e.g.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:code:`filter` and :code:`source` are available as well in GML templates. Assuming that the desired output is the corresponding GML equivalent of the GeoJSON output above e.g.:
```

  <st:Temperature>
    <st:time>${st:time}</st:time>
    <st:value>${st:value}</st:value>
  </st:Temperature>
  </st:temperature>
  <st:pressure gft:isCollection="true" gft:source="st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature"  gft:filter="xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'pressure'">
  <st:Pressure>
    <st:time>${st:time}</st:time>
    <st:value>${st:value}</st:value>
  </st:Pressure>
  </st:pressure>
  <st:wind_speed gft:isCollection="true" gft:source="st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature"  gft:filter="xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'wind speed'">
  <st:Wind_speed>
    <st:time>${st:time}</st:time>
    <st:value>${st:value}</st:value>
  </st:Wind_speed>
  </st:wind_speed>
  </st:MeteoStations>
 </gft:Template>

In the GML case :code:`filter` and :code:`source` directives are defined in a slightly different manner from the JSON usecase.

* The filter needs to be defined as an attribute :code:`gft:filter` in the element that is meant to be filtered.
* The source needs to be defined as an attribute :code:`gft:source` in the element that will set the source for its child elements.

> * The attribute :code:`gft:isCollection="true"` define a directive meant to be used in GML templates to mark collection elements: this directive is needed since xml doesn't have the array concept and the template mechanism needs to be informed if an element should be repeated because it represent a collection element. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The attribute :code:`gft:isCollection="true"` defines a directive meant to be used in GML templates to mark collection elements: this directive is needed since XML doesn't have the array concept and the template mechanism needs to be informed if an element should be repeated because it represent a collection element. 
```

Check the following template from the GeoJSON Stations use case.

.. code-block:: json

 {
 "$source":"st:MeteoStationsFeature",
 "properties":{
    "Code":"$${strConcat('STATION-', xpath('st:code'))}",
    "Location":"$${toWKT(xpath('st:position'))}",
    "Temperatures":[
     {
        "$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
        "$filter":"xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'temperature'"
     },
     {
       "Value": "${st:value}",
       "StillCode":"$${strConcat('STATION-', xpath('../st:code'))}"
      }
  ]
 }

In the :code:`Temperatures` array a :code:`StillCode` attribute has been defined that through :code:`../` references not the :code:`"$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature"`, but the previous one :code:`"$source":"st:MeteoStationsFeature"`.

The same can be achieved with the property interpolation directive if a cql function evaluation is not needed: :code:`"StillCode":"$${strConcat('STATION-', xpath('../st:code'))}"`.

> .. warning:: the :code:`xpath('some xpath)` cql function is meant to be used in the scope of this plugin. For general usage please refers to the :geotools:`property function <library/main/function_list.html#property-propertyname-returns-propertyvalue>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. warning:: the :code:`xpath('some xpath)` cql function is meant to be used in the scope of this plugin. For general usage please refer to the :geotools:`property function <library/main/function_list.html#property-propertyname-returns-propertyvalue>`.
```

Template Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The directives seen so far allow to control the output in the scope of a Feature element. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The directives seen so far allow control of the output in the scope of a Feature element. 
```

> The :code:`options` directive, instead, allows to customize the output for piece of the output outside the Feature scope or to define general modifications to the overall output. The available options vary according to the output format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :code:`options` directive, instead, allows customizing the output for part of the output outside the Feature scope or to define general modifications to the overall output. The available options vary according to the output format.
```

GeoJSON
"""""""

> In the context of a GeoJSON template are available two options: :code:`flat_output` and :code:`separator`. These options are meant to provide a GeoJSON output encoded following INSPIRE rule for `alternative feature GeoJSON encoding <https://github.com/INSPIRE-MIF/2017.2/blob/master/GeoJSON/ads/simple-addresses.md>`_ (`see also <https://github.com/INSPIRE-MIF/2017.2/blob/master/GeoJSON/efs/simple-environmental-monitoring-facilities.md>`_).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the context of a GeoJSON template two options are available: :code:`flat_output` and :code:`separator`. These options are meant to provide a GeoJSON output encoded following INSPIRE rule for `alternative feature GeoJSON encoding <https://github.com/INSPIRE-MIF/2017.2/blob/master/GeoJSON/ads/simple-addresses.md>`_ (`see also <https://github.com/INSPIRE-MIF/2017.2/blob/master/GeoJSON/efs/simple-environmental-monitoring-facilities.md>`_).
```

        "Temperatures":[
          {
            "$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
            "$filter":"xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'temperature'"
          },
          {
            "Timestamp": "${st:time}",
            "Value": "${st:value}"
          }
        ],
        "Pressures":[
          {
            "$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
            "$filter":"xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'pressure'"
          },
          {
            "Timestamp": "${st:time}",
            "Value": "${st:value}"
          }
        ],
        "Winds_speed":[
          {
            "$source":"st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature",
            "$filter":"xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'wind speed'"
          },
          {
            "Timestamp": "${st:time}",
            "Value": "${st:value}"
          }
        ]
      }
     }

The :code:`flat_output` will act in the following way:

 * The encoding of nested arrays and objects will be skipped, by encoding only their attributes.

>  * Objects' attribute names will be concatenated with the ones of their json attributes.

Reviewer 2: Maybe:
```suggestion
 * Object attribute names will be concatenated with the names of their JSON attributes.
```

But I'm not sure what this is trying to say.

         "wkt":"gsp:asWKT",
         "Feature":"gsp:Feature",
         "geometry":"gsp:hasGeometry",
         "point":"sf:point",
         "features":{
            "@container":"@set",
            "@id":"schema:hasPart"
         }
      }
   ],
   "type":"FeatureCollection",
   "features":[
      {
         "Identifier":"MeteoStationsFeature.7",
         "Name":"Bologna",
         "Code":"STATION-BOL",
         "Location":"POINT (44.5 11.34)",
         "Temperatures":[
            {
               "Timestamp":"2016-12-19T11:28:31.000+00:00",
               "Value":"35.0"
            },
            {
               "Timestamp":"2016-12-19T11:28:55.000+00:00",
               "Value":"25.0"
            }
         ],
         "Pressures":[
            {
               "Timestamp":"2016-12-19T11:30:26.000+00:00",
               "Value":"1019.0"
            },
            {
               "Timestamp":"2016-12-19T11:30:51.000+00:00",
               "Value":"1015.0"
            }
         ],
         "Winds speed":[
            {
               "Timestamp":"2016-12-19T11:29:24.000+00:00",
               "Value":"80.0"
            }
         ]
      }
   ]
 }

GML
"""

> GML output has two :code:`options`: Namespaces and SchemaLocation, that define the namspaces and the SchemaLocation attribute that will be included in the FeatureCollection element in the resulting output. These options needs to be specified inside a :code:`gft:Options` element at the beggining of the template right after the :code:`gft:Template` element, e.g.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GML output has two :code:`options`: Namespaces and SchemaLocation, that define the namespaces and the SchemaLocation attribute that will be included in the FeatureCollection element in the resulting output. These options needs to be specified inside a :code:`gft:Options` element at the beginning of the template right after the :code:`gft:Template` element, e.g.
```

  <st:Temperature>
    <st:time>${st:time}</st:time>
    <st:value>${st:value}</st:value>
  </st:Temperature>
  </st:temperature>
  <st:pressure gft:isCollection="true" gft:source="st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature"  gft:filter="xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'pressure'">
  <st:Pressure>
    <st:time>${st:time}</st:time>
    <st:value>${st:value}</st:value>
  </st:Pressure>
  </st:pressure>
  <st:wind_speed gft:isCollection="true" gft:source="st:meteoObservations/st:MeteoObservationsFeature"  gft:filter="xpath('st:meteoParameters/st:MeteoParametersFeature/st:param_name') = 'wind speed'">
  <st:Wind_speed>
    <st:time>${st:time}</st:time>
    <st:value>${st:value}</st:value>
  </st:Wind_speed>
  </st:wind_speed>
  </st:MeteoStations>
  </gft:Template>

Including other templates
-------------------------

While developing a group of templates, it's possible to notice sections that repeat across 
different template instances. Template inclusion allows to share the common parts, extracting them
in a re-usable building block.

Inclusion can be performed using two directives:

> * :code:`include` allows to include a separate template as is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :code:`include` allows including a separate template as is.
```

> * :code:`includeFlat` allows to include a separate template, stripping the top-most container. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :code:`includeFlat` allows including a separate template, stripping the top-most container. 
```
